I am monarch of all I survey,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
My right there is none to dispute,	wswwswws	wswwswws
From the centre all round to the sea,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
O solitude! where are the charms	wswwswws	wswwswws
That sages have seen in thy face?	wswwswws	wswwswws
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,	swswwswws	wwswwswws
Than reign in this horrible place.	wswwswws	wswwswws
I am out of humanity's reach,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
I must finish my journey alone,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Never hear the sweet music of speech,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
I start at the sound of my own.	wswwswws	wswwswws
The beasts that roam over the plain	wswwswws	wswwswws
My form with indifference see,	wswwswws	wswwswws
They are so unacquainted with man,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Their tameness is shocking to me.	wswwswws	wwswwswws
Society, friendship, and love,	swwswws	wswwswws
Divinely bestow'd upon man,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Oh had I the wings of a dove,	wswwswws	wswwswws
How soon would I taste you again!	wswwswws	wswwswws
My sorrows I then might assuage	wswwswws	wswwswws
In the ways of religion and truth,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Might learn from the wisdom of age,	wswwswws	wswwswws
And be cheer'd by the sallies of youth.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Religion! what treasure untold	wswwswws	wswwswws
Resides in that heavenly word!	wswwswws	wswwswws
More precious than silver and gold,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Or all that this earth can afford.	wswwswws	wswwswws
But the sound of the church-going bell	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
These valleys and rocks never heard,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Or smiled when a sabbath appear'd.	wswwswws	wswwswws
Ye winds that have made me your sport,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Convey to this desolate shore	wswwswws	wswwswws
Some cordial endearing report	wswwswws	wswwswws
Of a land I shall visit no more!	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
My friends, do they now and then send	wswwswws	wswwswws
A wish or a thought after me?	wswwswws	wswwswws
Oh tell me I yet have a friend,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Though a friend I am never to see.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
How fleet is a glance of the mind!	wswwswws	wswwswws
Compared with the speed of its flight,	wswwswws	wswwswws
The tempest itself lags behind,	wswwswws	wswwswws
And the swift winged arrows of light.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
When I think of my own native land,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
In a moment I seem to be there;	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
But alas! recollection at hand	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Soon hurries me back to despair.	wswwswws	wswwswws
But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
The beast is laid down in his lair,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Even here is a season of rest,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And I to my cabin repair.	wswwswws	wswwswws
There is mercy in every place,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And mercy, encouraging thought!	wswwswws	wswwswws
Gives even affliction a grace,	wswwswws	wswwswws
And reconciles man to his lot.	wswwswws	wswwswws
And he bowed down his hopeless head	wwsswsws	wwswwsws
In the drift of the wild world's tide,	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
And dying, Thou hast conquered, he said,	wswswswws	wswswswws
Galilean; he said it, and died.	swswwswws	wwswwswws
And the world that was thine and was ours	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
When the Graces took hands with the Hours	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Grew cold as a winter wave	wswwsws	wswwsws
In the wind from a wide-mouthed grave,	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
As a gulf wide open to swallow	wwswswwsw	wwswswwsw
The light that the world held dear.	wswwsws	wswwsws
O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
Destroyer and healer, hear!	wswwsws	wswwsws
For the shades are about us that hover	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
When darkness is half withdrawn	wswwsws	wswwsws
And the skirts of the dead night cover	wwswwswsw	wwswwswsw
The face of the live new dawn.	wswwsws	wswwsws
For the past is not utterly past	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Though the word on its lips be the last,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And the time be gone by with its creed	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
When men were as beasts that bleed,	wswwsws	wswwsws
As sheep or as swine that wallow,	wswwswsw	wswwswsw
In the shambles of faith and of fear.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
Destroyer and healer, hear!	wswwsws	wswwsws
And the word and the life wast thou,	wwswwswws	wwswwsws
The spirit of man and the breath;	wswwswws	wswwswws
And before thee the Gods that bow	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
Take life at thine hands and death.	wswwsws	wswwsws
For these are as ghosts that wane,	wswwsws	wswwsws
That are gone in an age or twain;	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
Harsh, merciful, passionate, pure,	wswwswws	wswwswws
They perish, but thou shalt endure;	wswwswws	wswwswws
Be their flight with the swan or the swallow,	swswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
They pass as the flight of a year.	wswwswws	wswwswws
O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
Destroyer and healer, hear!	wswwsws	wswwsws
Is the sun yet cast out of heaven?	wwswswws	wwswswwsw
Is the song yet cast out of man?	swswswws	wwswswws
Life that had song for its leaven	swwswws	swwswwsw
To quicken the blood that ran	wswwsws	wswwsws
Through the veins of the songless years	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
More bitter and cold than tears,	wswwsws	wswwsws
Heaven that had thee for its one	swwswws	swwswws
Light, life, word, witness, O sun,	wswswws	wswswws
Are they soundless and sightless and hollow,	swswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Without eye, without speech, without ear?	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
Destroyer and healer, hear!	wswwsws	wswwsws
'Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
While visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And Mamma in her 'kerchief, and I in my cap,	wswswswwswws	wswwswwswws
Had just settled our brains for a long winter's nap;	swswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,	wswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswwsw
Away to the window I flew like a flash,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Tore open the shutters and threw up the sash.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
The moon on the breast of the new-fallen snow,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Gave the lustre of mid-day to objects below,	swswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
But a miniature sleigh, and eight tiny rein-deer,	wwswwswswwsw	wwswwswwswws
With a little old driver, so lively and quick,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
“Now, Dasher! now, Dancer! now, Prancer and Vixen!	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
On, Comet! on, Cupid! on, Donder and Blitzen!	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
To the top of the porch! to the top of the wall!	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Now dash away! dash away! dash away all!”	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
As dry leaves that before the wild hurricane fly,	wwswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
So up to the house-top the coursers they flew,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
With the sleigh full of Toys, and St. Nicholas too.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And then, in a twinkling, I heard on the roof,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
As I drew in my head, and was turning around,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
He was dressed all in fur, from his head to his foot,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
A bundle of Toys he had flung on his back,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And he look'd like a pedlar just opening his pack.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
His eyes how they twinkled! his dimples how merry!	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry!	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the beard of his chin was as white as the snow;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the smoke it encircled his head like a wreath;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
He had a broad face and a little round belly,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
That shook when he laughed, like a bowlfull of jelly.	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
He was chubby and plump, a right jolly old elf,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And I laughed when I saw him, in spite of myself;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And fill'd all the stockings; then turned with a jerk,	wswwswswws	wswwswwswws
And laying his finger aside of his nose,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.	wwswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
But I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
“Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good night.”	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
The Assyrian came down like the wolf on the fold,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And his cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And the sheen of their spears was like stars on the sea,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
When the blue wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Like the leaves of the forest when Summer is green,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
That host with their banners at sunset were seen:	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Like the leaves of the forest when Autumn hath blown,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
That host on the morrow lay withered and strown.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
For the Angel of Death spread his wings on the blast,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And breathed in the face of the foe as he passed;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the eyes of the sleepers waxed deadly and chill,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And their hearts but once heaved and for ever grew still!	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And there lay the steed with his nostril all wide,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
But through it there rolled not the breath of his pride;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the foam of his gasping lay white on the turf,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And cold as the spray of the rock-beating surf.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And there lay the rider distorted and pale,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
With the dew on his brow, and the rust on his mail:	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And the tents were all silent the banners alone	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
The lances unlifted the trumpet unblown.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the widows of Ashur are loud in their wail,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And the idols are broke in the temple of Baal;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And the might of the Gentile, unsmote by the sword,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Hath melted like snow in the glance of the Lord!	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
“Just the place for a Snark!” the Bellman cried,	wwswwswsws	wwswwswsws
As he landed his crew with care;	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
Supporting each man on the top of the tide	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
By a finger entwined in his hair.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
“Just the place for a Snark! I have said it twice:	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwsws
That alone should encourage the crew.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Just the place for a Snark! I have said it thrice:	wwswwswwsws	wwswwswwsws
What I tell you three times is true.”	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
The crew was complete: it included a Boots	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
A maker of Bonnets and Hoods	wswwswws	wswwswws
A Barrister, brought to arrange their disputes	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And a Broker, to value their goods.	wwswwswws	wwswwsws
A Billiard-marker, whose skill was immense,	wswswwswws	wswwswwswws
Might perhaps have won more than his share	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
But a Banker, engaged at enormous expense,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Had the whole of their cash in his care.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
There was also a Beaver, that paced on the deck,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Or would sit making lace in the bow:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And had often (the Bellman said) saved them from wreck	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Though none of the sailors knew how.	wswwswws	wswwswws
There was one who was famed for the number of things	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
He forgot when he entered the ship:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
His umbrella, his watch, all his jewels and rings,	wwswwswwsws	wwswwswwswws
And the clothes he had bought for the trip.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He had forty-two boxes, all carefully packed,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
With his name painted clearly on each:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
But, since he omitted to mention the fact,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
They were all left behind on the beach.	swwswswws	wwswwswws
The loss of his clothes hardly mattered, because	wswwswwsw	wswwswwswws
He had seven coats on when he came,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
With three pair of boots but the worst of it was,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
He had wholly forgotten his name.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He would answer to “Hi!” or to any loud cry,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Such as “Fry me!” or “Fritter my wig!”	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
To “What-you-may-call-um!” or “What-was-his-name!”	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
But especially “Thing-um-a-jig!”	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
While, for those who preferred a more forcible word,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
He had different names from these:	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
His intimate friends called him “Candle-ends,”	wswwswwsws	wswwswwsws
And his enemies “Toasted-cheese.”	wwswwsws	wwswwsws
“His form is ungainly his intellect small ”	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
(So the Bellman would often remark)	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
“But his courage is perfect! And that, after all,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Is the thing that one needs with a Snark.”	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He would joke with hyænas, returning their stare	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
With an impudent wag of the head:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And he once went a walk, paw-in-paw, with a bear,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
“Just to keep up its spirits,” he said.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He came as a Baker: but owned, when too late	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And it drove the poor Bellman half-mad	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He could only bake Bride-cake for which, I may state,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
No materials were to be had.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
The last of the crew needs especial remark,	wswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Though he looked an incredible dunce:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He had just one idea but, that one being “Snark,”	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
The good Bellman engaged him at once.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He came as a Butcher: but gravely declared,	wswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
When the ship had been sailing a week,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
He could only kill Beavers. The Bellman looked scared,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And was almost too frightened to speak:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
But at length he explained, in a tremulous tone,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
There was only one Beaver on board;	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And that was a tame one he had of his own,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Whose death would be deeply deplored.	wswwswws	wswwswws
The Beaver, who happened to hear the remark,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Protested, with tears in its eyes,	wswwswws	wswwswws
That not even the rapture of hunting the Snark	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Could atone for that dismal surprise!	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
It strongly advised that the Butcher should be	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Conveyed in a separate ship:	wswwswws	wswwswws
But the Bellman declared that would never agree	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
With the plans he had made for the trip:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Navigation was always a difficult art,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Though with only one ship and one bell:	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And he feared he must really decline, for his part,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Undertaking another as well.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
The Beaver's best course was, no doubt, to procure	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
A second-hand dagger-proof coat	wswwswws	wswwswws
So the Baker advised it and next, to insure	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Its life in some Office of note:	wswwswws	wswwswws
This the Banker suggested, and offered for hire	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
(On moderate terms), or for sale,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Two excellent Policies, one Against Fire	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And one Against Damage From Hail.	wswwswws	wswwswws
Yet still, ever after that sorrowful day,	wswwswwsww	wswwswwswws
Whenever the Butcher was by,	wswwswws	wswwswws
The Beaver kept looking the opposite way,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And appeared unaccountably shy.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
The Bellman himself they all praised to the skies	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Such a carriage, such ease and such grace!	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Such solemnity, too! One could see he was wise,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
The moment one looked in his face!	wswwswws	wswwswws
He had bought a large map representing the sea,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Without the least vestige of land:	wswwswws	wswwswws
And the crew were much pleased when they found it to be	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
A map they could all understand.	wswwswws	wswwswws
“What's the good of Mercator's North Poles and Equators,	wwswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
Tropics, Zones, and Meridian Lines?”	swswwswws	wwswwswws
So the Bellman would cry: and the crew would reply	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
“They are merely conventional signs!	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
I sprang to the stirrup, and Joris, and he;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
I galloped, Dirck galloped, we galloped all three;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
“Good speed!” cried the watch, as the gate-bolts undrew;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
“Speed!” echoed the wall to us galloping through;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Behind shut the postern, the lights sank to rest,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And into the midnight we galloped abreast.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Not a word to each other; we kept the great pace	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Neck by neck, stride by stride, never changing our place;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
I turned in my saddle and made its girths tight,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Then shortened each stirrup, and set the pique right,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Rebuckled the cheek-strap, chained slacker the bit,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Nor galloped less steadily Roland a whit.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
'T was moonset at starting; but while we drew near	wwswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Lokeren, the cocks crew and twilight dawned clear;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
At Boom, a great yellow star came out to see;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
At Düffeld, 't was morning as plain as could be;	wswwwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And from Mecheln church-steeple we heard the half-chime,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
So, Joris broke silence with, “Yet there is time!”	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
At Aershot, up leaped of a sudden the sun,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And against him the cattle stood black every one,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
To stare thro' the mist at us galloping past,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And I saw my stout galloper Roland at last,	wwswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
With resolute shoulders, each butting away	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
The haze, as some bluff river headland its spray:	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And his low head and crest, just one sharp ear bent back	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
For my voice, and the other pricked out on his track;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And one eye's black intelligence, ever that glance	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
O'er its white edge at me, his own master, askance!	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And the thick heavy spume-flakes which aye and anon	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
His fierce lips shook upwards in galloping on.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
By Hasselt, Dirck groaned; and cried Joris, “Stay spur!	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
“Your Roos galloped bravely, the fault's not in her,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
“We'll remember at Aix” for one heard the quick wheeze	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Of her chest, saw the stretched neck and staggering knees,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And sunk tail, and horrible heave of the flank,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
As down on her haunches she shuddered and sank.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
So, we were left galloping, Joris and I,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Past Looz and past Tongres, no cloud in the sky;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
The broad sun above laughed a pitiless laugh,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
'Neath our feet broke the brittle bright stubble like chaff;		wwswwswwswws
Till over by Dalhem a dome-spire sprang white,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And “Gallop,” gasped Joris, “for Aix is in sight!”	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
“How they'll greet us!” and all in a moment his roan	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Rolled neck and croup over, lay dead as a stone;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And there was my Roland to bear the whole weight	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Of the news which alone could save Aix from her fate,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
With his nostrils like pits full of blood to the brim,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And with circles of red for his eye-sockets' rim.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Then I cast loose my buffcoat, each holster let fall,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Shook off both my jack-boots, let go belt and all,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Stood up in the stirrup, leaned, patted his ear,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Called my Roland his pet-name, my horse without peer;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Clapped my hands, laughed and sang, any noise, bad or good,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Till at length into Aix Roland galloped and stood.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And all I remember is friends flocking round	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
As I sat with his head 'twixt my knees on the ground;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And no voice but was praising this Roland of mine,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
As I poured down his throat our last measure of wine,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Which (the burgesses voted by common consent)	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Was no more than his due who brought good news from Ghent.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Cold eyelids that hide like a jewel	wswwswws	wswwswws
Hard eyes that grow soft for an hour;	wswwswws	wswwswws
The heavy white limbs, and the cruel	wswwswws	wswwswws
Red mouth like a venomous flower;	wswwswws	wswwswws
When these are gone by with their glories,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
What shall rest of thee then, what remain,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
O mystic and sombre Dolores,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Our Lady of Pain?	wswws	wswws
Seven sorrows the priests give their Virgin;	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
But thy sins, which are seventy times seven,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Seven ages would fail thee to purge in,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
And then they would haunt thee in heaven:	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Fierce midnights and famishing morrows,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
And the loves that complete and control	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
All the joys of the flesh, all the sorrows	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
That wear out the soul.	wswws	wswws
O garment not golden but gilded,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
O garden where all men may dwell,	wswwswws	wswwswws
O tower not of ivory, but builded	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
By hands that reach heaven from hell;	wswwswws	wswwswws
O mystical rose of the mire,	wswwswws	wswwswws
O house not of gold but of gain,	wswwswws	wswwswws
O house of unquenchable fire,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Our Lady of Pain!	wswws	wswws
O lips full of lust and of laughter,	wswwswws	wswwswwsw
Curled snakes that are fed from my breast,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Bite hard, lest remembrance come after	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
And press with new lips where you pressed.	wswwswws	wswwswws
For my heart too springs up at the pressure,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Mine eyelids too moisten and burn;	wswwswws	wswwswws
Ah, feed me and fill me with pleasure,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Ere pain come in turn.	wswws	wswws
In yesterday's reach and to-morrow's,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Out of sight though they lie of to-day,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
There have been and there yet shall be sorrows	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
That smite not and bite not in play.	wswwswws	wswwswws
The life and the love thou despisest,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
These hurt us indeed, and in vain,	wswwswws	wswwswws
O wise among women, and wisest,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Our Lady of Pain.	wswws	wswws
Who gave thee thy wisdom? what stories	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
That stung thee, what visions that smote?	wswwswws	wswwswws
Wert thou pure and a maiden, Dolores,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
When desire took thee first by the throat?	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
What bud was the shell of a blossom	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
That all men may smell to and pluck?	wswwswws	wswwswws
What milk fed thee first at what bosom?	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
What sins gave thee suck?	wswws	wswws
We shift and bedeck and bedrape us,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Thou art noble and nude and antique;	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Libitina thy mother, Priapus	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Thy father, a Tuscan and Greek.	wswwswws	wswwswws
We play with light loves in the portal,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
And wince and relent and refrain;	wswwswws	wswwswws
Loves die, and we know thee immortal,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Our Lady of Pain.	wswws	wswws
Fruits fail and love dies and time ranges;	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Thou art fed with perpetual breath,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And alive after infinite changes,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
And fresh from the kisses of death;	wswwswws	wswwswws
Of languors rekindled and rallied,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Of barren delights and unclean,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Things monstrous and fruitless, a pallid	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
And poisonous queen.	wswws	wswws
Could you hurt me, sweet lips, though I hurt you?	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Men touch them, and change in a trice	wswwswws	wswwswws
The lilies and languors of virtue	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
For the raptures and roses of vice;	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Those lie where thy foot on the floor is,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
These crown and caress thee and chain,	wswwswws	wswwswws
O splendid and sterile Dolores,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Our Lady of Pain.	wswws	wswws
There are sins it may be to discover,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
There are deeds it may be to delight.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
What new work wilt thou find for thy lover,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
What new passions for daytime or night?	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
What spells that they know not a word of	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Whose lives are as leaves overblown?	wswwswws	wswwswws
What tortures undreamt of, unheard of,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Unwritten, unknown?	wswws	wswws
Ah beautiful passionate body	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
That never has ached with a heart!	wswwswws	wswwswws
On thy mouth though the kisses are bloody,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Though they sting till it shudder and smart,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
More kind than the love we adore is,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
They hurt not the heart or the brain,	wswwswws	wswwswws
O bitter and tender Dolores,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Our Lady of Pain.	wswws	wswws
As our kisses relax and redouble,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
From the lips and the foam and the fangs	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Shall no new sin be born for men's trouble,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
No dream of impossible pangs?	wswwswws	wswwswws
With the sweet of the sins of old ages	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
Wilt thou satiate thy soul as of yore?	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Too sweet is the rind, say the sages,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Too bitter the core.	wswws	wswws
Hast thou told all thy secrets the last time,	wwswwswwsw	wwswwswwsw
And bared all thy beauties to one?	wswwswws	wswwswws
Ah, where shall we go then for pastime,	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
If the worst that can be has been done?	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
How sweet 'tis to rove at the close of the day,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
O'er daisy-clad meads, by a soft murm'ring rill,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
When the thrush from the brake pours his evening love lay,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
And Sol's parting beams tinge the furze-cover'd hill;	wwswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
When the rustic's loud laugh tells a heart void of care,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
With the maid of his bosom delighted to roam;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
When eager the joys of his cottage to share,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
The labourer wearied, thinks long for his home.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Now wrapt up in mist is the mountain's steep brow;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
No longer the din of the village is heard;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Now lost is the landscape, late beauteous to view;	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
No sound strikes the ear, save one sorrowful bird:	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
'Tis the partridge's wail, for his far-distant mate	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Let man learn affection from each feather'd pair,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And reflect on the days he has spent, ere too late;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Still thankful, midst sorrows, for blessings that were.	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
In life's rosy morn, full of frolic and joy,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Light-hearted, in quest of new pleasures we fly,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Till noon brings its cares, many a hope to destroy,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the thoughts of the past will oft force a deep sigh:	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Eve steals on apace, and oft finds us in tears,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
For in friendship, in love, constant changes we see;	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Each wound of the heart deeper grows with our years,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
And the evening of life's seldom tranquil or free.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
To you the chief Grievance and Plague of the Time,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Heavy Thrashers of Prose, and Tormentors of Rhime.	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
You Play-Wights and Authors, with all their Attendance,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
The Locusts of Egypt were a civiller Vengeance.	wswwswwwswwsw	wswwsww(w)swwsw
From him who each Action o'th' Publick misconstrues,	wswwswwswsws	wswwswwswws
To the Makers of Devils, and Sermons, and Monsters;	wwswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
Than whom there's no Vulture discover can further,	wswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
By Instinct, the Approach of Dire Battle and Murder.	wswwwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
To each politick Stroker, or hungry Backbiter,	swswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
From the Bawdy Song-Scribler, to the Godly Book-Writer:	wwswwswwwswwsw	wwswwsww(w)swwsw
Be their Works or their Fortunes, or lucky, or scurvy;	wwswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
From great Mr. Bays down to little Mr. Dy.	wswwswwswsws	wswwswwsww(w)s
To Satyrical Dick, who has us'd us so kindly,	wwswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
Though I hope, Mr. Author, to ben't far behind you:	wwswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
And 'twere best that your Back you'd prepare for a humming,	wwswwswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
Oh, say not, my love, with that mortified air,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
That your spring-time of pleasure is flown,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Nor bid me to maids that are younger repair,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
For those raptures that still are thine own.	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
Though April his temples may wreathe with the vine,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Its tendrils in infancy curl'd,	wswwswws	wswwswws
'Tis the ardour of August matures us the wine,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Whose life-blood enlivens the world.	wswwswws	wswwswws
Though thy form, that was fashion'd as light as a fay's,	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Has assumed a proportion more round,	wwswwswws	wwswwswws
And thy glance, that was bright as a falcon's at gaze	wwswwswwswws	wwswwswwswws
Looks soberly now on the ground,	wswwswws	wswwswws
Enough, after absence to meet me again,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Thy steps still with ecstasy move;	wswwswws	wswwswws
Enough, that those dear sober glances retain	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
For me the kind language of love.	wswwswws	wswwswws
