Just for a handful of silver he left us,	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
Just for a riband to stick in his coat	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Found the one gift of which fortune bereft us,	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
Lost all the others she lets us devote;	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
They, with the gold to give, doled him out silver,	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
So much was theirs who so little allowed:	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
How all our copper had gone for his service!	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
Rags were they purple, his heart had been proud!	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
We that had loved him so, followed him, honoured him,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Lived in his mild and magnificent eye,	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Learned his great language, caught his clear accents,	swwswswwsw	swwsw.swwsw
Made him our pattern to live and to die!	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Shakespeare was of us, Milton was for us,	swwswswwsw	swwsw.swwsw
Burns, Shelley, were with us, they watch from their graves!	wswwswwswws	sswwswwswws
He alone breaks from the van and the freemen,	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
He alone sinks to the rear and the slaves!	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
We shall march prospering, not thro' his presence;	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
Songs may inspirit us, not from his lyre;	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Deeds will be done, while he boasts his quiescence,	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
Still bidding crouch whom the rest bade aspire:	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Blot out his name, then, record one lost soul more,	swwswwswsws	swwswwswwsw
One task more declined, one more footpath untrod,	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
One more devils'-triumph and sorrow for angels,	wwswswwswwsw	wwswwswwswwsw
One wrong more to man, one more insult to God!	wswwswwswws	wswwswwswws
Life's night begins: let him never come back to us!	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
There would be doubt, hesitation and pain,	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Forced praise on our part the glimmer of twilight,	swswwswswws	wswwswwswwsw
Never glad confident morning again!	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Best fight on well, for we taught him strike gallantly,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Menace our heart ere we master his own;	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Then let him receive the new knowledge and wait us,	wswwswwswwsw	wswwswwswwsw
Pardoned in heaven, the first by the throne!	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Bearded with moss, and in garments green, indistinct in the twilight,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Stand like Druids of eld, with voices sad and prophetic,	swswwswswswwsw	swswwswswswwsw
Stand like harpers hoar, with beards that rest on their bosoms.	swswswswswwsw	swswswswswwsw
Loud from its rocky caverns, the deep-voiced neighboring ocean	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Speaks, and in accents disconsolate answers the wail of the forest.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
This is the forest primeval; but where are the hearts that beneath it	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Leaped like the roe, when he hears in the woodland the voice of the huntsman?	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Where is the thatch-roofed village, the home of Acadian farmers,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Men whose lives glided on like rivers that water the woodlands,	swwswswswwswwsw	swswwswswwswwsw
Darkened by shadows of earth, but reflecting an image of heaven?	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Waste are those pleasant farms, and the farmers forever departed!	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Scattered like dust and leaves, when the mighty blasts of October	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Seize them, and whirl them aloft, and sprinkle them far o'er the ocean.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Naught but tradition remains of the beautiful village of Grand-Pré.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Ye who believe in affection that hopes, and endures, and is patient,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Ye who believe in the beauty and strength of woman's devotion,	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
List to the mournful tradition, still sung by the pines of the forest;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
List to a Tale of Love in Acadie, home of the happy.	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
In the Acadian land, on the shores of the Basin of Minas,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Distant, secluded, still, the little village of Grand-Pré	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Lay in the fruitful valley. Vast meadows stretched to the eastward,	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Giving the village its name, and pasture to flocks without number.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Dikes, that the hands of the farmers had raised with labor incessant,	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Shut out the turbulent tides; but at stated seasons the flood-gates	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Opened, and welcomed the sea to wander at will o'er the meadows.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
West and south there were fields of flax, and orchards and cornfields	swswwswswswwsw	swswwswswswwsw
Spreading afar and unfenced o'er the plain; and away to the northward	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Blomidon rose, and the forests old, and aloft on the mountains	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Sea-fogs pitched their tents, and mists from the mighty Atlantic	swswswswwswwsw	swswswswwswwsw
Looked on the happy valley, but ne'er from their station descended.	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
There, in the midst of its farms, reposed the Acadian village.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Strongly built were the houses, with frames of oak and of hemlock,	swswwswwswswwsw	swswwswwswswwsw
Such as the peasants of Normandy built in the reign of the Henries.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Thatched were the roofs, with dormer-windows; and gables projecting	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Over the basement below protected and shaded the doorway.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
There in the tranquil evenings of summer, when brightly the sunset	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Lighted the village street, and gilded the vanes on the chimneys,	swwswswsswswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Matrons and maidens sat in snow-white caps and in kirtles	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Scarlet and blue and green, with distaffs spinning the golden	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Flax for the gossiping looms, whose noisy shuttles within doors	swwswwswswswsws	swwswwswswswwsw
Mingled their sounds with the whir of the wheels and the songs of the maidens.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Solemnly down the street came the parish priest, and the children	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Paused in their play to kiss the hand he extended to bless them.	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Reverend walked he among them; and up rose matrons and maidens,	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Hailing his slow approach with words of affectionate welcome.	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Then came the laborers home from the field, and serenely the sun sank	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Down to his rest, and twilight prevailed. Anon from the belfry	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Softly the Angelus sounded, and over the roofs of the village	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Columns of pale blue smoke, like clouds of incense ascending,	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Rose from a hundred hearths, the homes of peace and contentment.	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Thus dwelt together in love these simple Acadian farmers,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Dwelt in the love of God and of man. Alike were they free from	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Fear, that reigns with the tyrant, and envy, the vice of republics.	swswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Neither locks had they to their doors, nor bars to their windows;	swswswwswswwsw	swswswwswswwsw
But their dwellings were open as day and the hearts of the owners;	swswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
There the richest was poor, and the poorest lived in abundance.	swswwswwswswwsw	swswwswwswswwsw
Somewhat apart from the village, and nearer the Basin of Minas,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Benedict Bellefontaine, the wealthiest farmer of Grand-Pré,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Dwelt on his goodly acres; and with him, directing his household,	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Gentle Evangeline lived, his child, and the pride of the village.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Stalworth and stately in form was the man of seventy winters;	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Hearty and hale was he, an oak that is covered with snow-flakes;	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
White as the snow were his locks, and his cheeks as brown as the oak-leaves.	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Fair was she to behold, that maiden of seventeen summers.	swswwswswwswwsw	swswwswswwswwsw
Black were her eyes as the berry that grows on the thorn by the wayside,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Black, yet how softly they gleamed beneath the brown shade of her tresses!	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Sweet was her breath as the breath of kine that feed in the meadows.	swwswwswswswwsw	swwswwswswswwsw
When in the harvest heat she bore to the reapers at noontide	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Flagons of home-brewed ale, ah! fair in sooth was the maiden.	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Fairer was she when, on Sunday morn, while the bell from its turret	swswswswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Sprinkled with holy sounds the air, as the priest with his hyssop	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Sprinkles the congregation, and scatters blessings upon them,	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Down the long street she passed, with her chaplet of beads and her missal,	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Wearing her Norman cap, and her kirtle of blue, and the ear-rings,	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Brought in the olden time from France, and since, as an heirloom,	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Handed down from mother to child, through long generations.	swswswwswswwsw	swswswwswswwsw
But a celestial brightness a more ethereal beauty	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Shone on her face and encircled her form, when, after confession,	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Homeward serenely she walked with God's benediction upon her.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
When she had passed, it seemed like the ceasing of exquisite music.	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Firmly builded with rafters of oak, the house of the farmer	swswwswwswswwsw	swswswwswswwsw
Stood on the side of a hill commanding the sea; and a shady	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Sycamore grew by the door, with a woodbine wreathing around it.	swwswwswswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Rudely carved was the porch, with seats beneath; and a footpath	swswwswswswwsw	swswwswswswwsw
Led through an orchard wide, and disappeared in the meadow.	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Under the sycamore-tree were hives overhung by a penthouse,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Such as the traveller sees in regions remote by the roadside,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Built o'er a box for the poor, or the blessed image of Mary.	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Farther down, on the slope of the hill, was the well with its moss-grown	swswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Bucket, fastened with iron, and near it a trough for the horses.	swswwswswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Shielding the house from storms, on the north, were the barns and the farm-yard.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
There stood the broad-wheeled wains and the antique ploughs and the harrows;	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
There were the folds for the sheep; and there, in his feathered seraglio,	swwswwswswwswwsww	swwswwswswwswwsw
Strutted the lordly turkey, and crowed the cock, with the selfsame	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Voice that in ages of old had startled the penitent Peter.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Bursting with hay were the barns, themselves a village. In each one	swwswwswswsw	swwswwswswswwsw
Far o'er the gable projected a roof of thatch; and a staircase,	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Under the sheltering eaves, led up to the odorous corn-loft.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
There too the dove-cot stood, with its meek and innocent inmates	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Half a league, half a league,	swwsww	swwsww
Half a league onward,	swwsw	swwsw
All in the valley of Death	swwswws	swwswws
Rode the six hundred.	swwsw	swwsw
‘Forward, the Light Brigade!	swwsws	swwsww
Charge for the guns!’ he said:	swwsws	swwsww
Into the valley of Death	swwswws	swwswws
Rode the six hundred.	swwsw	swwsw
‘Forward, the Light Brigade!’	swwsws	swwsww
Was there a man dismay'd?	swwsws	swwsww
Not tho' the soldier knew	swwsws	swwsww
Some one had blunder'd:	swwsw	swwsw
Their's not to make reply,	swwsws	swwsww
Their's not to reason why,	swwsws	swwsww
Their's but to do and die:	swwsws	swwsww
Into the valley of Death	swwswws	swwswws
Rode the six hundred.	swwsw	swwsw
Cannon to right of them,	swwsww	swwsww
Cannon to left of them,	swwsww	swwsww
Cannon in front of them	swwsww	swwsww
Volley'd and thunder'd;	swwsw	swwsw
Storm'd at with shot and shell,	swwsws	swwsww
Boldly they rode and well,	swwsws	swwsww
Into the jaws of Death,	swwsws	swwsww
Into the mouth of Hell	swwsws	swwsww
Rode the six hundred.	swwsw	swwsw
Flash'd all their sabres bare,	swwsws	swwsww
Flash'd as they turn'd in air	swwsws	swwsww
Sabring the gunners there,	swwsws	swwsww
Charging an army, while	swwsww	swwsww
All the world wonder'd:	swwsw	swwsw
Plunged in the battery-smoke	swwswws	swwsww
Right thro' the line they broke;	swwsws	swwsww
Cossack and Russian	swwsw	swwsw
Reel'd from the sabre-stroke	swwsws	swwsww
Shatter'd and sunder'd.	swwsw	swwsw
Then they rode back, but not	swwsws	swwsww
Not the six hundred.	swwsw	swwsw
Cannon to right of them,	swwsww	swwsww
Cannon to left of them,	swwsww	swwsww
Cannon behind them	swwsw	swwsw
Volley'd and thunder'd;	swwsw	swwsw
Storm'd at with shot and shell,	swwsws	swwsww
While horse and hero fell,	wswsws	swwsww
They that had fought so well	swwsws	swwsww
Came thro' the jaws of Death,	swwsws	swwsww
Back from the mouth of Hell,	swwsws	swwsww
All that was left of them,	swwsws	swwsww
Left of six hundred.	swwsw	swwsw
When can their glory fade?	swwsws	swwsww
O the wild charge they made!	swwsws	swwsww
All the world wonder'd.	swwsw	swwsw
Honour the charge they made!	swwsws	swwsww
Honour the Light Brigade,	swwsws	swwsww
Noble six hundred!	swwsw	swwsw
Eve, with her basket, was	swwsww	swwsww
Deep in the bells and grass,	swwsws	swwsww
Wading in bells and grass	swwsws	swwsww
Up to her knees,	swws	swws
Picking a dish of sweet	swwsws	swwsww
Berries and plums to eat,	swwsws	swwsww
Down in the bells and grass	swwsws	swwsww
Under the trees.	swws	swws
Mute as a mouse in a	swwsww	swwsww
Corner the cobra lay,	swwsws	swwsww
Curled round a bough of the	swwsww	swwsww
Cinnamon tall. ...	swws	swws
Now to get even and	swwsww	swwsww
Humble proud Heaven and	swwsww	swwsww
Now was the moment or	swwsww	swwsww
Never at all.	swws	swws
‘Eva!’ Each syllable	swwsww	swwsww
Light as a flower fell,	swwsww	swwsww
‘Eva!’ he whispered the	swwsww	swwsww
Wondering maid,	swws	swws
Soft as a bubble sung	swwsww	swwsww
Out of a linnet's lung,	swwsww	swwsww
Soft and most silverly	swwsww	swwsww
‘Eva!’ he said.	swws	swws
Picture that orchard sprite,	swwsws	swwsww
Eve, with her body white,	swwsww	swwsww
Supple and smooth to her	swwsww	swwsww
Slim finger tips,	swws	swws
Wondering, listening,	swwsww	swwsww
Listening, wondering,	swwsww	swwsww
Eve with a berry	swwsw	swwsw
Half-way to her lips.	wswws	wswws
Oh had our simple Eve	swwsww	swwsww
Seen through the make-believe!	swwsww	swwsww
Had she but known the	swwsw	swwsw
Pretender he was!	swwsw	wswws
Out of the boughs he came,	swwsww	swwsww
Whispering still her name,	swwsww	swwsww
Tumbling in twenty rings	swwsww	swwsww
Into the grass.	swws	swws
Here was the strangest pair	swwsww	swwsww
In the world anywhere,	swwsww	swwsww
Eve in the bells and grass	swwsws	swwsww
Kneeling, and he	swws	swws
Telling his story low. ...	swwsww	swwsww
Singing birds saw them go	swwsww	swwsww
Down the dark path to	swwsw	swwsw
The Blasphemous Tree.	wswws	wswws
Oh what a clatter when	swwsw	swwsww
Titmouse and Jenny Wren	swwsww	swwsww
Saw him successful and	swwsww	swwsww
Taking his leave!	swws	swws
How the birds rated him,	swwsww	swwsww
How they all hated him!	swwsww	swwsww
How they all pitied	swwsw	swwsw
Poor motherless Eve!	wswws	wswws
Picture her crying	swwsw	swwsw
Outside in the lane,	wswws	wswws
Eve, with no dish of sweet	swwsww	swwsww
Berries and plums to eat,	swwsww	swwsww
Haunting the gate of the	swwsww	swwsww
Orchard in vain. ...	swws	swws
Picture the lewd delight	swwsww	swwsww
Under the hill to-night	swwsww	swwsww
‘Eva!’ the toast goes round,	swwsww	swwsww
‘Eva!’ again.	swws	swws
Over the great windy waters, and over the clear-crested summits,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwsw
Unto the sun and the sky, and unto the perfecter earth,	swwswwswswwswws	swwswwswswwswws
Come, let us go, to a land wherein gods of the old time wandered,	swwswwswwswwswsw	swwswwswwswwswsw
Where every breath even now changes to ether divine.	wswwswwswwswws	wswwswwsswwswws
Come, let us go; though withal a voice whisper, ‘The world that we live in,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Whithersoever we turn, still is the same narrow crib;	swwswwswswwsws	swwswwsswwswws
'Tis but to prove limitation, and measure a cord, that we travel;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Let who would 'scape and be free go to his chamber and think;	swwswwswswswws	wswwswwsswwswws
'Tis but to change idle fancies for memories wilfully falser;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
'Tis but to go and have been.’ Come, little bark! let us go.	swwswwswswswws	swwswwsswwswws
Dear Eustatio, I write that you may write me an answer,	swswwswswswwsw	swswwswwsswwsw
Or at the least to put us again en rapport with each other.	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Rome disappoints me much, St. Peter's, perhaps, in especial;	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Only the Arch of Titus and view from the Lateran please me:	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
This, however, perhaps is the weather, which truly is horrid.	swswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Greece must be better, surely; and yet I am feeling so spiteful,	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
That I could travel to Athens, to Delphi, and Troy, and Mount Sinai,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Though but to see with my eyes that these are vanity also.	swwswwswswswwsw	swwswwswswswwsw
Rome disappoints me much; I hardly as yet understand, but	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Rubbishy seems the word that most exactly would suit it.	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
All the foolish destructions, and all the sillier savings,	swswwswwswswwsw	swswwswwswswwsw
All the incongruous things of past incompatible ages,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Seem to be treasured up here to make fools of present and future.	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Would to Heaven the old Goths had made a cleaner sweep of it!	swswwswwswswsww	swswwswwswswsww
Would to Heaven some new ones would come and destroy these churches!	swswwswwswwswsw	swswwswwswwswsw
However, one can live in Rome as also in London.	swwswswswswwsw	wswswswswswwsw
It is a blessing, no doubt, to be rid, at least for a time, of	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswwswsw
All one's friends and relations, yourself (forgive me!) included,	swswwswwswswwsw	swswwswwswswwsw
All the assujettissement of having been what one has been,	swwswwswswwswws	swwswwswswwswws
What one thinks one is, or thinks that others suppose one;	swwswwswswwsw	swswswswswwsw
Yet, in despite of all, we turn like fools to the English.	swwswswswswwsw	swwswswswswwsw
Vernon has been my fate; who is here the same that you knew him,	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Making the tour, it seems, with friends of the name of Trevellyn.	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Rome disappoints me still; but I shrink and adapt myself to it.	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Somehow a tyrannous sense of a superincumbent oppression	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Still, wherever I go, accompanies ever, and makes me	swswwswswwswwsw	swswwswswwswwsw
Feel like a tree (shall I say?) buried under a ruin of brickwork.	swwswwsswswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Rome, believe me, my friend, is like its own Monte Testaceo,	swswwswswwswwsww	swswwswswwswwsw
Merely a marvellous mass of broken and castaway wine-pots.	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Ye gods! what do I want with this rubbish of ages departed,	wsswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Things that nature abhors, the experiments that she has failed in?	swswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
What do I find in the Forum? An archway and two or three pillars.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Well, but St. Peter's? Alas, Bernini has filled it with sculpture!	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
No one can cavil, I grant, at the size of the great Coliseum.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Doubtless the notion of grand and capacious and massive amusement,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
This the old Romans had; but tell me, is this an idea?	swwswswswwswwsw	swswwswswwswws
Yet of solidity much, but of splendour little is extant:	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
‘Brickwork I found thee, and marble I left thee!’ their Emperor vaunted;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
‘Marble I thought thee, and brickwork I find thee!’ the Tourist may answer.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
At last, dearest Louisa, I take up my pen to address you.	swswwswwswwswwsw	wsswwswwswwswwsw
Here we are, you see, with the seven-and-seventy boxes,	swswswwswwswwsw	swswswwswwswwsw
Courier, Papa and Mamma, the children, and Mary and Susan:	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Here we all are at Rome, and delighted of course with St. Peter's,	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
And very pleasantly lodged in the famous Piazza di Spagna.	wswswwswwswwswwsw	wswswwswwswwswwsw
Rome is a wonderful place, but Mary shall tell you about it;	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Not very gay, however; the English are mostly at Naples;	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
There are the A.'s, we hear, and most of the W. party.	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
George, however, is come; did I tell you about his mustachios?	swswwswwswwswwsww	swswwswwswwswwsw
Dear, I must really stop, for the carriage, they tell me, is waiting;	swwswswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Mary will finish; and Susan is writing, they say, to Sophia.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Adieu, dearest Louise, evermore your faithful Georgina.	swswwswwswswwsw	wsswwswwswswwsw
Who can a Mr. Claude be whom George has taken to be with?	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswwswswswwsw
Very stupid, I think, but George says so very clever.	swswwswswswwsw	swswwswswwswsw
No, the Christian faith, as at any rate I understood it,	swswswwswswwsww	swswswwswwswwsw
With its humiliations and exaltations combining,	swwswswwswswwsw	wswswswwswswwsw
Exaltations sublime, and yet diviner abasements,	swswwswswswwsw	swswwswswswwsw
Aspirations from something most shameful here upon earth and	swswwswwswswwsw	swswwswwswswwsw
In our poor selves to something most perfect above in the heavens,	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
No, the Christian faith, as I, at least, understood it,	swswswswswwsw	swswswswswwsw
Is not here, O Rome, in any of these thy churches;	swswswswwswsw	swswswswwswsw
Is not here, but in Freiburg, or Rheims, or Westminster Abbey.	swwswswwswswwsw	swswwswwswswwsw
What in thy Dome I find, in all thy recenter efforts,	swwswswswwswsw	swwswswswswwsw
Is a something, I think, more rational far, more earthly,	swswwswswwswsw	swswwswswwswsw
Actual, less ideal, devout not in scorn and refusal,	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
But in a positive, calm, Stoic-Epicurean acceptance.	swwswwsswswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
This I begin to detect in St. Peter's and some of the churches,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Mostly in all that I see of the sixteenth-century masters;	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
Overlaid of course with infinite gauds and gewgaws,	swswswswwswsw	swswswswwswsw
Innocent, playful follies, the toys and trinkets of childhood,	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswswwsw
Forced on maturer years, as the serious one thing needful,	swwswswwswwswsw	swwswswwswwswsw
By the barbarian will of the rigid and ignorant Spaniard.	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Curious work, meantime, re-entering society: how we	swwswswswswsww	swwswswswwswwsw
Walk a livelong day, great Heaven, and watch our shadows!	swswswswwswsw	swswswswwswsw
What our shadows seem, forsooth, we will ourselves be.	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Do I look like that? you think me that: then I am that.	swswswswwswws	swswswswswwsw
Luther, they say, was unwise; like a half-taught German, he could not	swwswwswwswswwsw	swwswwswwswswwsw
See that old follies were passing most tranquilly out of remembrance;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Leo the Tenth was employing all efforts to clear out abuses;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Jupiter, Juno, and Venus, Fine Arts, and Fine Letters, the Poets,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Scholars, and Sculptors, and Painters, were quietly clearing away the	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Martyrs, and Virgins, and Saints, or at any rate Thomas Aquinas:	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
He must forsooth make a fuss and distend his huge Wittenberg lungs, and	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Bring back Theology once yet again in a flood upon Europe:	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Lo you, for forty days from the windows of heaven it fell; the	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Waters prevail on the earth yet more for a hundred and fifty;	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Are they abating at last? the doves that are sent to explore are	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
This is a spray the Bird clung to,	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Making it blossom with pleasure,	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Ere the high tree-top she sprung to,	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Fit for her nest and her treasure.	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Oh, what a hope beyond measure	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Was the poor spray's, which the flying feet hung to,	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
So to be singled out, built in, and sung to!	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
This is a heart the Queen leant on.	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Thrilled in a minute erratic,	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Ere the true bosom she bent on,	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Meet for love's regal dalmatic.	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Oh, what a fancy ecstatic	swwswwsw	swwswwsw
Was the poor heart's, ere the wanderer went on	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
Love to be saved for it, proffered to, spent on!	swwswwswwsw	swwswwswwsw
One more Unfortunate,	swwsww	swwsww
Weary of breath,	swws	swws
Rashly importunate,	swwsww	swwsww
Gone to her death!	swws	swws
Take her up tenderly,	swwsww	swwsww
Lift her with care;	swws	swws
Fashion'd so slenderly,	swwsww	swwsww
Young, and so fair!	swws	swws
Look at her garments	swwsw	swwsw
Clinging like cerements;	swwsww	swwsww
Whilst the wave constantly	swwsww	swwsww
Drips from her clothing;	swwsw	swwsw
Take her up instantly,	swwsww	swwsww
Loving, not loathing.	swwsw	swwsw
Touch her not scornfully;	swwsww	swwsww
Think of her mournfully,	swwsww	swwsww
Gently and humanly;	swwsww	swwsww
Not of the stains of her,	swwsww	swwsww
All that remains of her	swwsww	swwsww
Now is pure womanly.	swwsww	swwsww
Make no deep scrutiny	swwsww	swwsww
Into her mutiny	swwsww	swwsww
Rash and undutiful:	swwsww	swwsww
Past all dishonour,	swwsw	swwsw
Death has left on her	swwsw	swwsw
Only the beautiful.	swwsww	swwsww
Still, for all slips of hers,	swwsww	swwsww
One of Eve's family	swwsww	swwsww
Wipe those poor lips of hers	swwsww	swwsww
Oozing so clammily.	swwsww	swwsww
Loop up her tresses	swwsw	swwsw
Escaped from the comb,	swws	wswws
Her fair auburn tresses;	wswwsw	wswwsw
Whilst wonderment guesses	wswwsw	wswwsw
Where was her home?	swws	swws
Who was her father?	swwsw	swwsw
Who was her mother?	swwsw	swwsw
Had she a sister?	swwsw	swwsw
Had she a brother?	swwsw	swwsw
Or was there a dearer one	swwsww	wswwsww
Still, and a nearer one	swwsww	swwsww
Yet, than all other?	swwsw	swwsw
Alas! for the rarity	wswwsww	wswwsww
Of Christian charity	swsww	swwsww
Under the sun!	swws	swws
Oh! it was pitiful!	swwsww	swwsww
Near a whole city full,	swwsww	swwsww
Home she had none.	swws	swws
Sisterly, brotherly,	swwsww	swwsww
Fatherly, motherly	swwsww	swwsww
Feelings had changed:	swws	swws
Love, by harsh evidence,	swwsww	swwsww
Thrown from its eminence;	swwsww	swwsww
Even God's providence	swwsww	swwsww
Seeming estranged.	swws	swws
Where the lamps quiver	swwsw	swwsw
So far in the river,	wswwsw	wswwsw
With many a light	wswws	wswws
From window and casement,	wswwsw	wswwsw
From garret to basement,	wswwsw	wswwsw
She stood, with amazement,	wswwsw	wswwsw
Houseless by night.	swws	swws
The bleak wind of March	wswws	wswwsw
Made her tremble and shiver;	swswwsw	wwswwsw
But not the dark arch,	wswws	wswws
Or the black flowing river:	wwswwsw	wwswwsw
Mad from life's history,	swwsww	swwsww
Glad to death's mystery,	swwsww	swwsww
Swift to be hurl'd	swws	swws
Any where, any where	swwsww	swwsww
Out of the world!	swws	swws
In she plunged boldly,	swwsw	swwsw
No matter how coldly	wswwsw	wswwsw
The rough river ran,	wswws	wswws
Over the brink of it,	swwsww	swwsww
Picture it think of it,	swwsww	swwsww
Dissolute Man!	swws	swws
Lave in it, drink of it.	swwsww	swwsww
Then, if you can!	swws	swws
Take her up tenderly,	swwsww	swwsww
Lift her with care;	swws	swws
Fashion'd so slenderly,	swwsww	swwsww
Young, and so fair!	swws	swws
Ere her limbs frigidly	swwsww	swwsww
Stiffen too rigidly,	swwsww	swwsww
Decently, kindly,	swwsw	swwsw
Smoothe, and compose them;	swwsw	swwsw
And her eyes, close them,	swwsw	swwsw
Staring so blindly!	swwsw	swwsw
Dreadfully staring	swwsw	swwsw
Thro' muddy impurity,	wswwsww	wswwsww
As when with the daring	wswwsw	wswwsw
Last look of despairing	wswwsw	wswwsw
Fix'd on futurity.	swwsww	swwsww
Perishing gloomily,	swwsww	swwsww
Spurr'd by contumely,	swwsww	swwsw
Cold inhumanity,	swwsww	swwsww
Burning insanity,	swwsww	swwsww
Into her rest.	swws	swws
Cross her hands humbly,	swwsw	swwsw
Gone faded out of the story, the sea-faring friend I remember?	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Gone for a decade, they say: never a word or a sign.	swwswwsswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Gone with his hard red face that only his laughter could wrinkle,	swwswswswwswwsw	swwswswswwswwsw
Down where men go to be still, by the old way of the sea.	swwswwswwsswws	swwswwsswwswws
Never again will he come, with rings in his ears like a pirate,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Back to be living and seen, here with his roses and vines;	swwswwsswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Here where the tenants are shadows and echoes of years uneventful,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Memory meets the event, told from afar by the sea.	swwswwsswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Smoke that floated and rolled in the twilight away from the chimney	swswwswwswwswwsw	swswwswwswwswwsw
Floats and rolls no more. Wheeling and falling, instead,	swswsswwswws	swswsswwswws
Down with a twittering flash go the smooth and inscrutable swallows,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Down to the place made theirs by the cold work of the sea.	swwswswwsswws	swwswsswwswws
Roses have had their day, and the dusk is on yarrow and wormwood	swwswswwswwswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Dusk that is over the grass, drenched with memorial dew;	swwswwsswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Trellises lie like bones in a ruin that once was a garden,	swwswswwswswwsw	swwswswwswwswwsw
Swallows have lingered and ceased, shadows and echoes are all.	swwswwsswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Where is he lying to-night, as I turn away down to the valley,	swwswwswswwsswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Down where the lamps of men tell me the streets are alive?	swwswsswwswws	swwswsswwswws
Where shall I ask, and of whom, in the town or on land or on water,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
News of a time and a place buried alike and with him?	swwswwsswwswsw	swwswwsswwswws
Few now remain who may care, nor may they be wiser for caring,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
Where or what manner the doom, whether by day or by night;	swwswwsswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Whether in Indian deeps or on flood-laden fields of Atlantis,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Or by the roaring Horn, shrouded in silence he lies.	swwswsswwswws	swwswsswwswws
Few now remain who return by the weed-weary path to his cottage,	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Drawn by the scene as it was met by the chill and the change;	swwswswswwswws	swwswwsswwswws
Few are alive who report, and few are alive who remember,	swwswwswswwswwsw	swwswwswswwswwsw
More of him now than a name carved somewhere on the sea.	swwswwswswsws	swwswwsswwswws
“Where is he lying?” I ask, and the lights in the valley are nearer;	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Down to the streets I go, down to the murmur of men.	swwswwswwswws	swwswsswwswws
Down to the roar of the sea in a ship may be well for another	swwswwswwswwswwsw	swwswwswwswwswwsw
Down where he lies to-night, silent, and under the storms.	swwswwswwswws	swwswsswwswws
Woman much missed, how you call to me, call to me,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Saying that now you are not as you were	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
When you had changed from the one who was all to me,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
But as at first, when our day was fair.	swwswwsws	swwswswws
Can it be you that I hear? Let me view you, then,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Standing as when I drew near to the town	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
Where you would wait for me: yes, as I knew you then,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Even to the original air-blue gown!	swswwswwsws	swwswwsws
Or is it only the breeze, in its listlessness	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Travelling across the wet mead to me here,	swwswwswws	swwswwswws
You being ever dissolved to wan wistlessness,	swwswwswwsww	swwswwswwsww
Heard no more again far or near?	wswwswws	wswwssws
Thus I; faltering forward,	swswwsw	swswwsw
Leaves around me falling,	swswsw	swswsw
Wind oozing thin through the thorn from norward,	swwswwswsw	swwswwswsw
And the woman calling.	swswsw	wwswsw
