In profuse strains of unpremeditated art.	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
And singing still dost soar, and soaring ever singest.	wswswswswswsw	wswswswswswsw
Like an unbodied joy whose race is just begun.	swswwswswsws	wswswswswsws
Thou art unseen, but yet I hear thy shrill delight:	swwswswswsws	wswswswswsws
Until we hardly see, we feel that it is there.	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
The moon rains out her beams, and heaven is overflow'd.	swswwswswsws	wswswswswsws
As from thy presence showers a rain of melody;	wswswswwswsws	wswswswswsws
To sympathy with hopes and fears it heeded not:	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
With music sweet as love, which overflows her bower:	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
Among the flowers and grass, which screen it from the view:	wswswwswswsws	wswswswswsws
Makes faint with too much sweet these heavy-wingéd thieves.	swswswwswsws	wswswswswsws
Joyous, and clear, and fresh, thy music doth surpass.	swwswswswsws	swwswswswsws
That panted forth a flood of rapture so divine.	swswswswswsw	wswswswswsws
A thing wherein we feel there is some hidden want.	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
What love of thine own kind? what ignorance of pain?	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
Thou lovest; but ne'er knew love's sad satiety.	wswwswswswsws	wswswswswsws
Or how could thy notes flow in such a crystal stream?	wswwsswswsws	wswswswswsws
Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought.	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
I know not how thy joy we ever should come near.	wswswswswwss	wswswswswsws
Thy skill to poet were, thou scorner of the ground!	wswswswswsws	wswswswswsws
O, my luve is like a red, red rose,	swswswsws	wwswswsws
That's newly sprung in June.	wswsws	wswsws
O, my luve is like the melodie,	swswswsws	wwswswsws
That's sweetly play'd in tune.	wswsws	wswsws
As fair art thou, my bonie lass,	wswswsws	wswswsws
So deep in luve am I,	wswsws	wswsws
And I will luve thee still, my dear,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Till a' the seas gang dry.	wswsws	wswsws
Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And the rocks melt wi' the sun!	wwsswws	wwswsws
And I will luve thee still, my dear,	wswswsws	wswswsws
While the sands o' life shall run.	wwswsws	wwswsws
And fare thee weel, my only luve,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And fare thee weel a while!	wswsws	wswsws
And I will come again, my luve,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Tho' it were ten thousand mile!	swwswws	wwswsws
Pure spirit! O where art thou now!	wswswsws	wswswsws
O whisper to my soul!	wswsws	wswsws
O let some soothing thought of thee,	wswswsws	wswswsws
This bitter grief controul!	wswsws	wswsws
'Tis not for thee the tears I shed,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Thy sufferings now are o'er;	wswsws	wswsws
The sea is calm, the tempest past,	wswswsws	wswswsws
On that eternal shore.	wswsws	wswsws
No more the storms that wrecked thy peace	wswswsws	wswswsws
Shall tear that gentle breast;	wswsws	wswsws
Nor Summer's rage, nor Winter's cold,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Thy poor, poor frame molest.	wswsws	wswsws
Thy peace is sealed, thy rest is sure,	wswswsws	wswswsws
My sorrows are to come;	wswsws	wswsws
Awhile I weep and linger here,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Then follow to the tomb.	wswsws	wswsws
And is the awful veil withdrawn,	wswswsws	wswswsws
That shrouds from mortal eyes,	wswsws	wswsws
In deep impenetrable gloom,	wswswsws	wswswsws
The secrets of the skies?	wswsws	wswsws
O, in some dream of visioned bliss,	swwswsws	wswswsws
Some trance of rapture, show	wswsws	wswsws
Where, on the bosom of thy God,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Thou rest'st from human woe!	wswsws	wswsws
Thence may thy pure devotion's flame	swwswsws	swwswsws
On me, on me descend;	wswsws	wswsws
To me thy strong aspiring hopes,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Thy faith, thy fervours lend.	wswsws	wswsws
Let these my lonely path illume,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And teach my weakened mind	wswsws	wswsws
To welcome all that's left of good,	wswswsws	wswswsws
To all that's lost resigned.	wswsws	wswsws
Farewell! With honour, peace, and love,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Be thy dear memory blest!	wswsws	wswsws
Thou hast no tears for me to shed,	wswswsws	wswswsws
When I too am at rest.	wswsws	wswsws
Happy the man, whose wish and care	swwswsws	swwswsws
A few paternal acres bound,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Content to breathe his native air,	wswswsws	wswswsws
In his own ground.	wsws	wsws
Whose herds with milk, whose fields with bread,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Whose flocks supply him with attire,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Whose trees in summer yield him shade,	wswswsws	wswswsws
In winter fire.	wsws	wsws
Blest, who can unconcern'dly find,	swwswsws	swwswsws
Hours, days and years slide soft away,	swwswsws	wswswsws
In health of body, peace of mind,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Quiet by day,	swws	swws
Sound sleep by night; study and ease,	wswsswws	wswsswws
Together mixt; sweet recreation;	wswswswsw	wswswswsw
And innocence which most does please,	wswswsws	wswswsws
With meditation.	wswsw	wswsw
Thus let me live, unseen, unknown,	swwswsws	wswswsws
Thus unlamented let me die,	swwswsws	wswswsws
Steal from the world, and not a stone	swwswsws	swwswsws
Tell where I lie.	swws	wsws
A poet's Cat, sedate and grave	wswswsws	wswswsws
As poet well could wish to have,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Was much addicted to inquire	wswswsws	wswswsws
For nooks to which she might retire,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And where, secure as mouse in chink,	wswswsws	wswswsws
She might repose, or sit and think.	wswswsws	wswswsws
I know not where she caught the trick,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Nature perhaps herself had cast her	swwswswsw	swwswswsw
In such a mould philosophique,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Or else she learn'd it of her Master.	wswswswsw	wswswswsw
Sometimes ascending, debonnair,	swwswsws	wswswsws
An apple-tree, or lofty pear,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Lodged with convenience in the fork,	swwswsws	swwswsws
She watch'd the gardener at his work;	wswswsws	wswswsws
Sometimes her ease and solace sought	swwswsws	wswswsws
In an old empty watering-pot,	wwsswsws	wwsswsws
There wanting nothing, save a fan,	wswswsws	wswswsws
To seem some nymph in her sedan	wswswsws	wswswsws
Apparell'd in exactest sort,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And ready to be borne to court.	wswswsws	wswswsws
But love of change it seems has place	wswswsws	wswswsws
Not only in our wiser race,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Cats also feel, as well as we,	swwswsws	wswswsws
That passion's force, and so did she.	wswswsws	wswswsws
Her climbing, she began to find,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Exposed her too much to the wind,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And the old utensil of tin	wwswswws	wwswswws
Was cold and comfortless within:	wswswsws	wswswsws
She therefore wish'd instead of those	wswswsws	wswswsws
Some place of more serene repose,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Where neither cold might come, nor air	wswswsws	wswswsws
Too rudely wanton with her hair,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And sought it in the likeliest mode	wswswsws	wswswsws
Within her master's snug abode.	wswswsws	wswswsws
A drawer, it chanced, at bottom lined	wswswsws	wswswsws
With linen of the softest kind,	wswswsws	wswswsws
With such as merchants introduce	wswswsws	wswswsws
From India, for the ladies' use,	wswswsws	wswswsws
A drawer impending o'er the rest,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Half open in the topmost chest,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Of depth enough, and none to spare,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Invited her to slumber there;	wswswsws	wswswsws
Puss with delight beyond expression	swwswswsw	wswswswsw
Survey'd the scene and took possession.	wswswswsw	wswswswsw
Recumbent at her ease ere long,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And lull'd by her own humdrum song,	wswswsws	wswswsws
She left the cares of life behind,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And slept as she would sleep her last,	wswswsws	wswswsws
When in came, housewifely inclined,	swswswws	wswswsws
The chambermaid, and shut it fast,	wswswsws	wswswsws
By no malignity impell'd,	wswswsws	wswswsws
But all unconscious whom it held.	wswswsws	wswswsws
Awaken'd by the shock, cried Puss,	wswswsws	wswswsws
“Was ever cat attended thus!	wswswsws	wswswsws
The open drawer was left, I see,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Merely to prove a nest for me,	swwswsws	swwswsws
For soon as I was well composed	wswswsws	wswswsws
Then came the maid, and it was closed.	wswswsws	wswswsws
How smooth these 'kerchiefs and how sweet!	wswswsws	wswswsws
Oh what a delicate retreat!	wswswsws	wswswsws
I will resign myself to rest	wswswsws	wswswsws
Till Sol declining in the west	wswswsws	wswswsws
Shall call to supper, when, no doubt,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Susan will come and let me out.”	swwswsws	swwswsws
The evening came, the sun descended,	wswswswsw	wswswsws
And puss remain'd still unattended.	wswswswsw	wswswsws
The night roll'd tardily away,	wswswsws	wswswsws
(With her indeed 'twas never day;)	wswswsws	wswswsws
The sprightly morn her course renew'd,	wswswsws	wswswsws
The evening grey again ensued,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And puss came into mind no more	wswswsws	wswswsws
Than if entomb'd the day before.	wswswsws	wswswsws
With hunger pinch'd, and pinch'd for room,	wswswsws	wswswsws
She now presaged approaching doom,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Nor slept a single wink or purr'd,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Conscious of jeopardy incurr'd.	swwswsws	swwswsws
That night, by chance, the poet watching,	wswswswsw	wswswswsw
Heard an inexplicable scratching;	swswswwsw	swswswwsw
His noble heart went pit-a-pat,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And to himself he said “What's that?”	wswswsws	wswswsws
He drew the curtain at his side,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And forth he peep'd, but nothing spied;	wswswsws	wswswsws
Yet, by his ear directed, guess'd	wswswsws	wswswsws
Something imprison'd in the chest,	swwswsws	wswswsws
And, doubtful what, with prudent care	wswswsws	wswswsws
Resolved it should continue there.	wswswsws	wswswsws
At length, a voice which well he knew,	wswswsws	wswswsws
A long and melancholy mew,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Saluting his poetic ears,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Consoled him, and dispell'd his fears;	wswswsws	wswswsws
He left his bed, he trod the floor,	wswswsws	wswswsws
He 'gan in haste the drawers explore,	wswswswws	wswswsws
The lowest first, and without stop	wswswsws	wswswsws
The rest in order to the top;	wswswsws	wswswsws
For 'tis a truth well known to most,	wswswsws	wswswsws
That whatsoever thing is lost,	wswswsws	wswswsws
We seek it, ere it come to light,	wswswsws	wswswsws
In every cranny but the right.	wswswsws	wswswsws
Forth skipp'd the cat, not now replete	wswswsws	wswswsws
As erst with airy self-conceit,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Stop, Christian passer-by! Stop, child of God,	wswswswsws	swwswsswws
And read with gentle breast. Beneath this sod	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
A poet lies, or that which once seem'd he.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
O, lift one thought in prayer for S. T. C.;	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
That he who many a year with toil of breath	wswswwswsws	wswswswsws
Found death in life, may here find life in death!	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Mercy for praise to be forgiven for fame	swwswswswws	swwswswsws
He ask'd, and hoped, through Christ. Do thou the same!	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
O blush not so! O blush not so!	wswswsws	wswswsws
Or I shall think you knowing;	wswswsw	wswswsw
And if you smile the blushing while,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Then maidenheads are going.	wswswsw	wswswsw
There's a blush for won't, and a blush for shan't,	swswswwsws	wwswswwsws
And a blush for having done it:	wwswswsw	wwswswsw
There's a blush for thought and a blush for naught,	wwswswwsws	wwswswwsws
And a blush for just begun it.	wwswswsw	wwswswsw
O sigh not so! O sigh not so!	wswswsws	wswswsws
For it sounds of Eve's sweet pippin;	wwswswsw	wwswswsw
By these loosen'd lips you have tasted the pips	wwswswwswws	wwswswwswws
And fought in an amorous nipping.	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
Will you play once more at nice-cut-core,	wwswswsws	wwswswsws
For it only will last our youth out,	wwswwswws	wwswwswsw
And we have the prime of the kissing time,	wswwswwsws	wswwswwsws
We have not one sweet tooth out.	wwswwsw	wswswsw
There's a sigh for yes, and a sigh for no,	wwswswwsws	wwswswwsws
And a sigh for I can't bear it!	wwswswsw	wwswswsw
O what can be done, shall we stay or run?	wswwswwsws	wswwswwsws
O cut the sweet apple and share it!	wswwswwsw	wswwswwsw
God moves in a mysterious way	wswswsws	wswswsws
His wonders to perform;	wswsws	wswsws
He plants his footsteps in the sea,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And rides upon the storm.	wswsws	wswsws
Deep in unfathomable mines	wswswsws	swwswsws
Of never-failing skill,	wswsws	wswsws
He treasures up his bright designs,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And works his sovereign will.	wswsws	wswsws
Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take,	wswswsws	wswswsws
The clouds ye so much dread	wswsws	wswsws
Are big with mercy, and shall break	wswswsws	wswswsws
In blessings on your head.	wswsws	wswsws
Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,	wswswsws	wswswsws
But trust him for his grace;	wswsws	wswsws
Behind a frowning providence	wswswsws	wswswsws
He hides a smiling face.	wswsws	wswsws
His purposes will ripen fast,	wswswsws	wswswsws
Unfolding every hour;	wswsws	wswsws
The bud may have a bitter taste,	wswswsws	wswswsws
But sweet will be the flower.	wswsws	wswsws
Blind unbelief is sure to err ,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And scan his work in vain:	wswsws	wswsws
God is his own interpreter,	wswswsws	wswswsws
And He will make it plain.	wswsws	wswsws
I sing the Sofa. I who lately sang	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Truth, Hope, and Charity, and touch'd with awe	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The solemn chords, and with a trembling hand,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Escaped with pain from that adventurous flight,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Now seek repose upon an humbler theme;	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The theme though humble, yet august and proud	wswswwswws	wswswswsws
The occasion, for the Fair commands the song.	wwswswswsws	wswswswsws
Time was when clothing, sumptuous or for use,	swwswswwsws	swwswswsws
Save their own painted skins, our sires had none.	swwswswsws	wswswswsws
As yet black breeches were not, sattin smooth,	wswswswsws	wswswwssws
Or velvet soft, or plush with shaggy pile.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The hardy chief upon the rugged rock	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Wash'd by the sea, or on the gravelly bank	swwswswsws	wswswswsws
Thrown up by wintry torrents roaring loud,	swwswswsws	wswswswsws
Fearless of wrong, reposed his weary strength.	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
Those barbarous ages past, succeeded next	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The birthday of invention, weak at first,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Dull in design, and clumsy to perform.	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
Joint-stools were then created; on three legs	wswswswsws	swwswswwss
Upborne they stood, three legs upholding firm	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
A massy slab, in fashion square or round.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
On such a stool immortal Alfred sat,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And sway'd the sceptre of his infant realms;	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And such in ancient halls and mansions drear	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
May still be seen, but perforated sore	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And drill'd in holes the solid oak is found,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
By worms voracious eating through and through.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
At length a generation more refined	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Improved the simple plan, made three legs four,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Gave them a twisted form vermicular,	wswswswsws	swwswswsws
And o'er the seat with plenteous wadding stuff'd	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Induced a splendid cover green and blue,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Yellow and red, of tapestry richly wrought	swwswswwsws	swwswswsws
And woven close, or needle-work sublime.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
There might ye see the piony spread wide,	swwswswsws	wswswswsws
The full-blown rose, the shepherd and his lass,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Lap-dog and lambkin with black staring eyes,	swwswwswws	swwswwssws
And parrots with twin cherries in their beak.	wswwsswsws	wswwsswsws
Now came the cane from India, smooth and bright	wswswswsws	swwswswsws
With Nature's varnish; sever'd into stripes	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
That interlaced each other, these supplied	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Of texture firm a lattice-work, that braced	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The new machine, and it became a chair.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
But restless was the chair; the back erect	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Distress'd the weary loins that felt no ease;	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The slippery seat betray'd the sliding part	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
That press'd it, and the feet hung dangling down,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Anxious in vain to find the distant floor.	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
These for the rich: the rest, whom fate had placed	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
In modest mediocrity, content	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
With base materials, sat on well-tann'd hides	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Obdurate and unyielding, glassy smooth,	swwswswsws	wswswswsws
With here and there a tuft of crimson yarn,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Or scarlet crewel in the cushion fixt:	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
If cushion might be call'd, what harder seem'd	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Than the firm oak of which the frame was form'd.	wwsswswsws	wwsswswsws
No want of timber then was felt or fear'd	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
In Albion's happy isle. The lumber stood	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Ponderous, and fixt by its own massy weight.	swwswwswws	swwswswsws
But elbows still were wanting; these, some say,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
An Alderman of Cripplegate contrived,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And some ascribe the invention to a priest	wswswwswsws	wswswswsws
Burly and big and studious of his ease.	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
But rude at first, and not with easy slope	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Receding wide, they press'd against the ribs,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And bruised the side, and elevated high	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Taught the raised shoulders to invade the ears.	swwswswsws	swswswwsws
Long time elapsed or ere our rugged sires	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Complain'd, though incommodiously pent in,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And ill at ease behind. The ladies first	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
'Gan murmur, as became the softer sex.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Ingenious fancy, never better pleased	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Than when employ'd to accommodate the fair,	wswswwswsws	wswswswsws
Heard the sweet moan with pity, and devised	swwswswsws	wwsswswsws
The soft settee; one elbow at each end,	wswswswsws	wsswwswsws
And in the midst an elbow, it received	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
United yet divided, twain at once.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
So sit two Kings of Brentford on one throne;	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And so two citizens who take the air	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Close pack'd and smiling in a chaise and one.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
But relaxation of the languid frame	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
By soft recumbency of outstretch'd limbs,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Was bliss reserved for happier days; so slow	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The growth of what is excellent, so hard	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
To attain perfection in this nether world.	wwswswswsws	wswswswsws
Thus first necessity invented stools,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Convenience next suggested elbow chairs,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And luxury the accomplished Sofa last.	wswswwswsws	wswswswsws
The nurse sleeps sweetly, hired to watch the sick	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Whom snoring she disturbs. As sweetly he	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Who quits the coach-box at the midnight hour	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
To sleep within the carriage more secure,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
His legs depending at the open door.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Sweet sleep enjoys the Curate in his desk,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
The tedious Rector drawling o'er his head,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And sweet the Clerk below: but neither sleep	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Of lazy nurse, who snores the sick man dead,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Nor his who quits the box at midnight hour	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
To slumber in the carriage more secure,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Nor sleep enjoy'd by Curate in his desk,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
I met a traveller from an antique land	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Stand in the desert . . . Near them, on the sand,	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read	swwswswsws	swwswswsws
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,	wswswswsws	wswsswwsws
The hand that mocked them, and the heart that fed:	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
And on the pedestal these words appear:	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
‘My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’	wswswswsws	swwswswsws
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay	swwswsswws	swwswsswws
Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare	wswswsswws	wswswsswws
The lone and level sands stretch far away.	wswswswsws	wswswswsws
