Why so pale and wan fond Lover?	swswswsw	swswswsw
Prithee why so pale?	swsws	swsws
Will, when looking well can't move her,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Looking ill prevaile?	swsws	swsws
Prithee why so pale?	swsws	swsws
Why so dull and mute young Sinner?	swswswsw	swswswsw
Prithee why so mute?	swsws	swsws
Will, when speaking well can't win her,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Saying nothing doo't?	swsws	swsws
Prithee why so mute?	swsws	swsws
Quit, quit, for shame, this will not move	wswswsws	wswswsws
This cannot take her;	wswsw	wswsw
If of her selfe shee will not Love,	swwswsws	wswswsws
Nothing can make her,	swwsw	wswsw
The Devill take her.	wswsw	wswsw
Tyger Tyger, burning bright,	swswsws	swswsws
In the forests of the night;	swswsws	swswsws
What immortal hand or eye,	swswsws	swswsws
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?	wswswsws	wswswsws
In what distant deeps or skies	swswsws	swswsws
Burnt the fire of thine eyes!	swswsw	swswsws
On what wings dare he aspire?	swswsws	swswsws
What the hand, dare sieze the fire?	swswsws	swswsws
And what shoulder, and what art,	swswsws	swswsws
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?	wswswsws	wswswsws
And when thy heart began to beat,	wswswsws	wswswsws
What dread hand? and what dread feet?	swswsws	swswsws
What the hammer? what the chain,	swswsws	swswsws
In what furnace was thy brain?	swswsws	swswsws
What the anvil? what dread grasp,	swswsws	swswsws
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?	swswsws	swswsws
When the stars threw down their spears	swswsws	swswsws
And water'd heaven with their tears:	wswswsws	wswswsws
Did he smile his work to see?	swswsws	swswsws
Did he who made the Lamb make thee?	wswswsws	wswswsws
Tyger, Tyger burning bright,	swswsws	swswsws
In the forests of the night:	swswsws	swswsws
What immortal hand or eye,	swswsws	swswsws
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?	wswswsws	wswswsws
Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!	swswsw	swswsw
Bird thou never wert,	swsws	swsws
That from heaven, or near it	swswsw	swswsw
Pourest thy full heart	swwss	swsws
Higher still and higher	swsws	swswsw
From the earth thou springest,	swswsw	swswsw
Like a cloud of fire,	swsws	swswsw
The blue deep thou wingest,	swswsw	wsswsw
In the golden lightning	swswsw	swswsw
Of the sunken sun	swsws	swsws
O'er which clouds are brightening,	swswsw	swswsw
Thou dost float and run,	swsws	swsws
The pale purple even	swswsw	wsswsw
Melts around thy flight;	swsws	swsws
Like a star of heaven	swswsw	swswsw
In the broad daylight	swsws	swsws
Keen as are the arrows	swswsw	swswsw
Of that silver sphere,	swsws	swsws
Whose intense lamp narrows	swwssw	swswsw
In the white dawn clear	swsws	swsws
All the earth and air	swsws	swsws
With thy voice is loud,	swsws	swsws
As, when night is bare,	swsws	swswsw
From one lonely cloud	swsws	wssws
What thou art we know not;	swswsw	swswsw
What is most like thee?	swsws	swsws
From rainbow clouds there flow not	wswswsw	wswswsw
Drops so bright to see	swsws	swsws
Like a poet hidden	wwswsw	swswsw
In the light of thought,	swsws	swsws
Singing hymns unbidden,	swswsw	swswsw
Till the world is wrought	swsws	swsws
Like a high-born maiden	swswsw	swswsw
In a palace tower,	swswsw	swsws
Soothing her love-laden	swwsww	swswsw
Soul in secret hour	swswsw	swsws
Like a glow-worm golden	swswsw	swswsw
In a dell of dew,	swsws	swsws
Scattering unbeholden	swswsw	swswsw
Its aerial hue	wsws	wswws
Like a rose embower'd	swswsw	swswsw
In its own green leaves,	swsws	swsws
By warm winds deflower'd,	swswsw	swswsw
Till the scent it gives	swsws	swsws
Sound of vernal showers	swswsw	swswsw
On the twinkling grass,	swsws	swsws
Rain-awaken'd flowers,	swswsw	swswsw
All that ever was	swsws	swsws
Teach us, sprite or bird,	swsws	swsws
What sweet thoughts are thine:	swsws	swsws
I have never heard	swsws	swsws
Praise of love or wine	swsws	swsws
Chorus hymeneal	swswsw	swswsw
Or triumphal chaunt	swsws	swsws
Match'd with thine, would be all	swswsw	swswsw
But an empty vaunt	swsws	swsws
What objects are the fountains	wswswsw	wswswsw
Of thy happy strain?	swsws	swsws
What fields, or waves, or mountains?	wswswsw	wswswsw
What shapes of sky or plain?	wswsws	wswsws
With thy clear keen joyance	swswsw	swswsw
Languor cannot be:	swsws	swsws
Shadow of annoyance	swswsw	swswsw
Never came near thee:	swsws	swsws
Waking or asleep	swsws	swsws
Thou of death must deem	swsws	swsws
Things more true and deep	swsws	swsws
Than we mortals dream,	swsws	swsws
We look before and after,	wswswsw	wswswsw
And pine for what is not:	wswsws	wswsws
Our sincerest laughter	swswsw	swswsw
With some pain is fraught;	swsws	swsws
Yet if we could scorn	swsws	swsws
Hate, and pride, and fear;	swsws	swsws
If we were things born	swsws	swsws
Not to shed a tear,	swsws	swsws
Better than all measures	swswsw	swswsw
Of delightful sound,	swsws	swsws
Better than all treasures	swswsw	swswsw
That in books are found,	swsws	swsws
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore,	swswwswswwswswsws	swswswswswswsws
While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswswsw
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
“'Tis some visiter,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Only this, and nothing more.”	swswsws	swswsws
Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Eagerly I wished the morrow; vainly I had sought to borrow	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
From my books surcease of sorrow sorrow for the lost Lenore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Nameless here for evermore.	swswsws	swswsws
And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Thrilled me filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
“'Tis some visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Some late visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
This it is, and nothing more.”	swswsws	swswsws
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
That I scarce was sure I heard you” here I opened wide the door;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Darkness there, and nothing more.	swswsws	swswsws
Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,	swswswswswswswwsw	swswswswswswswsw
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;	swswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
But the silence was unbroken, and the darkness gave no token,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore!”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Merely this, and nothing more.	swswsws	swswsws
Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Soon I heard again a tapping somewhat louder than before.	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
“Surely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice;	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
'Tis the wind and nothing more!”	swswsws	swswsws
Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,	swswswswswswwswsw	swswswswswswswsw
In there stepped a stately raven of the saintly days of yore;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Not the least obeisance made he; not an instant stopped or stayed he;	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Perched, and sat, and nothing more.	swswsws	swswsws
Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
“Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Ghastly grim and ancient raven wandering from the Nightly shore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore!”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”	swswsws	swswsws
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Though its answer little meaning little relevancy bore;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
With such name as “Nevermore.”	swswswsw	swswsws
But the raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Nothing farther then he uttered not a feather then he fluttered	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Till I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before.”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Then the bird said “Nevermore.”	swswsws	swswsws
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
“Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Of ‘Never nevermore.’”	wswsws	wswsws
But the raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”	swswsws	swswsws
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core;	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamplight gloated o'er,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswsws
But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er,	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
She shall press, ah, nevermore!	swswsws	swswsws
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Swung by angels whose faint foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
“Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee by these angels he hath sent thee	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Respite respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”	swswsws	swswsws
“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil! prophet still, if bird or devil!	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
On this home by Horror haunted tell me truly, I implore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Is there is there balm in Gilead? tell me tell me, I implore!”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”	swswsws	swswsws
“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil prophet still, if bird or devil!	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
By that Heaven that bends above us by that God we both adore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.”	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”	swswsws	swswsws
“Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!	swswswswswswswsw	swswswswswswswsw
Leave my loneliness unbroken! quit the bust above my door!	swswswswswswsws	swswswswswswsws
Should you ask me, whence these stories?	swswswsw	swswswsw
Whence these legends and traditions,	swswswsw	swswswsw
With the odors of the forest,	swswswsw	swswswsw
With the dew and damp of meadows,	swswswsw	swswswsw
With the curling smoke of wigwams,	swswswsw	swswswsw
With the rushing of great rivers,	swswswsw	swswswsw
With their frequent repetitions,	swswswsw	swswswsw
And their wild reverberations,	swswswsw	swswswsw
As of thunder in the mountains?	swswswsw	swswswsw
I should answer, I should tell you,	swswswsw	swswswsw
“From the forests and the prairies,	swswswsw	swswswsw
From the great lakes of the Northland,	swswswsw	swswswsw
From the land of the Ojibways,	swswswsw	swswswsw
From the land of the Dacotahs,	swswswsw	swswswsw
From the mountains, moors, and fen-lands	swswswsw	swswswsw
Where the heron, the Shuh-shuh-gah,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Feeds among the reeds and rushes.	swswswsw	swswswsw
I repeat them as I heard them	swswswsw	swswswsw
From the lips of Nawadaha,	swswswsw	swswswsw
The musician, the sweet singer.”	swswswsw	swswswsw
Should you ask where Nawadaha	swswswsw	swswswsw
Found these songs so wild and wayward,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Found these legends and traditions,	swswswsw	swswswsw
I should answer, I should tell you,	swswswsw	swswswsw
“In the birds-nests of the forest,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the lodges of the beaver,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the hoof-prints of the bison,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the eyry of the eagle!	swswswsw	swswswsw
“All the wild-fowl sang them to him,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the moorlands and the fen-lands,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the melancholy marshes;	swswswsw	swswswsw
Chetowaik, the plover, sang them,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Mahng, the loon, the wild-goose, Wawa,	swswswsw	swswswsw
The blue heron, the Shuh-shuh-gah,	swswswsw	swswswsw
And the grouse, the Mushkodasa!”	swswswsw	swswswsw
If still further you should ask me,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Saying, “Who was Nawadaha?	swswswsw	swswswsw
Tell us of this Nawadaha,”	swswswsw	swswswsw
I should answer your inquiries	swswswsw	swswswsw
Straightway in such words as follow.	swswswsw	swswswsw
“In the Vale of Tawasentha,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the green and silent valley,	swswswsw	swswswsw
By the pleasant water-courses,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Dwelt the singer Nawadaha.	swswswsw	swswswsw
Round about the Indian village	swswswsw	swswswsw
Spread the meadows and the corn-fields,	swswswsw	swswswsw
And beyond them stood the forest,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Stood the groves of singing pine-trees,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Green in Summer, white in Winter,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Ever sighing, ever singing.	swswswsw	swswswsw
“And the pleasant water-courses,	swswswsw	swswswsw
You could trace them through the valley,	swswswsw	swswswsw
By the rushing in the Spring-time,	swswswsw	swswswsw
By the alders in the Summer,	swswswsw	swswswsw
By the white fog in the Autumn,	swswswsw	swswswsw
By the black line in the Winter;	swswswsw	swswswsw
And beside them dwelt the singer,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the vale of Tawasentha,	swswswsw	swswswsw
In the green and silent valley.	swswswsw	swswswsw
“There he sang of Hiawatha,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Sang the Song of Hiawatha,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Sang his wondrous birth and being,	swswswsw	swswswsw
How he prayed and how he fasted,	swswswsw	swswswsw
How he lived, and toiled, and suffered,	swswswsw	swswswsw
That the tribes of men might prosper,	swswswsw	swswswsw
That he might advance his people!”	swswswsw	swswswsw
Ye who love the haunts of Nature,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Love the sunshine of the meadow,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Love the shadow of the forest,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Love the wind among the branches,	swswswsw	swswswsw
And the rain-shower and the snow-storm,	swswswsw	swswswsw
And the rushing of great rivers	swswswsw	swswswsw
Through their palisades of pine-trees,	swswswsw	swswswsw
And the thunder in the mountains,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Whose innumerable echoes	swswswsw	swswswsw
Flap like eagles in their eyries;	swswswsw	swswswsw
Listen to these wild traditions,	swswswsw	swswswsw
To this Song of Hiawatha!	swswswsw	swswswsw
Ye who love a nation's legends,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Love the ballads of a people,	swswswsw	swswswsw
That like voices from afar off	swswswsw	swswswsw
Call to us to pause and listen,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Speak in tones so plain and childlike,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Scarcely can the ear distinguish	swswswsw	swswswsw
Whether they are sung or spoken;	swswswsw	swswswsw
Listen to this Indian Legend,	swswswsw	swswswsw
To this Song of Hiawatha!	swswswsw	swswswsw
Ye whose hearts are fresh and simple,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Who have faith in God and Nature,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Who believe, that in all ages	swswswsw	swswswsw
Every human heart is human,	swswswsw	swswswsw
That in even savage bosoms	swswswsw	swswswsw
There are longings, yearnings, strivings	swswswsw	swswswsw
For the good they comprehend not,	swswswsw	swswswsw
That the feeble hands and helpless,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Groping blindly in the darkness,	swswswsw	swswswsw
Touch God's right hand in that darkness	swswswsw	swswswsw
And are lifted up and strengthened;	swswswsw	swswswsw
Listen to this simple story,	swswswsw	swswswsw
To this Song of Hiawatha!	swswswsw	swswswsw
Years have risen and fallen in darkness or in twilight,	swswwswwswswsw	swswwswwswswsw
Ages waxed and waned that knew not thee nor thine,	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
While the world sought light by night and sought not thy light,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Since the sad last pilgrim left thy dark mid shrine.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Dark the shrine and dumb the fount of song thence welling,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Save for words more sad than tears of blood, that said:	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Tell the king, on earth has fallen the glorious dwelling,	swswswswwswsw	swswswswwswwsw
And the watersprings that spake are quenched and dead.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Not a cell is left the God, no roof, no cover	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
In his hand the prophet laurel flowers no more.	swswswswswsw	swswswswsws
And the great king's high sad heart, thy true last lover,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Felt thine answer pierce and cleave it to the core.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Age on age thy mouth was mute, thy face was hidden,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
And the lips and eyes that loved thee blind and dumb;	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Song forsook their tongues that held thy name forbidden,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Light their eyes that saw the strange God's kingdom come.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Fire for light and hell for heaven and psalms for pæans	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Filled the clearest eyes and lips most sweet of song,	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
When for chant of Greeks the wail of Galileans	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Made the whole world moan with hymns of wrath and wrong.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Yea, not yet we see thee, father, as they saw thee,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
They that worshipped when the world was theirs and thine,	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
They whose words had power by thine own power to draw thee	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Down from heaven till earth seemed more than heaven divine.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Yet it may be, lord and father, could we know it,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
We that love thee for our darkness shall have light	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
More than ever prophet hailed of old or poet	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Standing crowned and robed and sovereign in thy sight.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
To the likeness of one God their dreams enthralled thee,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Who wast greater than all Gods that waned and grew;	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Son of God the shining son of Time they called thee,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Who wast older, O our father, than they knew.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
For no thought of man made Gods to love or honour	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Ere the song within the silent soul began,	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Nor might earth in dream or deed take heaven upon her	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Till the word was clothed with speech by lips of man.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Thou the word, the light, the life, the breath, the glory,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Strong to help and heal, to lighten and to slay,	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Thine is all the song of man, the world's whole story;	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
Not of morning and of evening is thy day.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Old and younger Gods are buried or begotten	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
From uprising to downsetting of thy sun,	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Risen from eastward, fallen to westward and forgotten,	swwswswwswswsw	swwswswwswswsw
And their springs are many, but their end is one.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Divers births of godheads find one death appointed,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
As the soul whence each was born makes room for each;	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
God by God goes out, discrowned and disanointed,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
But the soul stands fast that gave them shape and speech.	swswswswsws	swswswswsws
Time arose and smote thee silent at his warning,	swswswswswsw	swswswswswsw
